We'll come back.
And I would like to talk to you about but lay out that we have.
So we want to play out options and I showed you those real quickly but I didn't go into too much detail.
So let's go ahead and use for example a horizontal layout.
So I'm just going to say OK here I want to have a horizontal lay out what that does is it pretty much
puts elements next to each other.
So I'm just going to add a radio button in here as well.
So you see now it created this radio button next to the push button.
And if I tried to move it it moves pretty much the whole thing.
That's because the horizontal layout is selected.
But now if I move the button next to the radio button is still working.
OK.
So if you select something and drag it you can see it in the hierarchy on the right hand side.
So it says horizontal layout is selected.
That's why I'm selecting the whole horizontal layout even though I would like to drag the button so
I would need to push the button specifically in order to drag around the button.
All right.
So let's say I don't want to put stuff on top of each other then I would use the vertical layout so
I'm just going to create a little vertical lay out here and say like this and then I just drag some
buttons in there and they all just have this very basic appeal.
Now this will make this a little smaller as well.
And then we have this grid layout so let's drag it greatly out in here I'm going to make it a little
bigger in here I'm also going to just drag in some buttons as you can see it applies them on top of
each other except I want to put it next to each other so you can create I see that it creates a grid
automatically for me.
And I have a push button here and now we have this form layout which is pretty much perfect to create
forms.
So let's check that out.
And I'm going to drag stuff a little up.
Now in this forum lay out this is where you would put for example a label.
Then you would have a text field next to it.
So let me get a line edit here and do the same thing once again.
So create another label and another line added I can see now it knows perfectly what to do what to do.
So it creates the form or the label is on the left the text added is on the right.
And I'd say this looks pretty good but now let's see how it looks in our actual UI.
So I'm going to save this and go back to my bill.
Why.
So I'm going to run the bill why in order to make sure that my main window Y is updated.
And now you will see that we have a horizontal layout was contains all of the different elements and
then we have the vertical layout and so forth.
All right so now I'm going to run the main the Y file in order to get my UI.
So you see it's pretty clean.
It's very good.
Things are structured in a way where I would say OK this is all right but now let's look at this.
You see if I changed the size of the window suddenly my elements disappear and that's not exactly what
I would want to my UI to do.
OK so how do I fix them.
How do I solve this problem.
Well let's go back to the cute creator and in here you can select the central widget or the main window.
So let's go to the central widget and select that one.
It's important that it's selected.
Then you can use those buttons that you have here at the top.
And they're a little smaller even though they increased the size of the UI but still get this problem.
So there's this one which says that lay out in a grid.
So I'm just going to say like lay out in a grid and as you can see suddenly all the elements are changed
in their size.
So this push button is a lot thicker.
We're Weider pretty much just push button here is going almost through the whole width of the page and
the same goes for all the other elements so they are now positioned in a grid so that we cannot change
and not change to size anymore.
So I would like to for example actually put this back when I would like to change to size.
Let me make it a little smaller.
And as you can see it goes back jumps back to the value that it has defined for me.
So now in order to test that I'm going to save it again go back here run my bill.
Why.
So just to like build here and then after that's done run my main paper why.
And you will see that that's how my solution looks like now.
So now even if I change the size of my UI you can see everything is still fitting perfectly OK.
So that's pretty much what you can do with this approach you can see I cannot make it thinner than this
minimum here.
I can not make it shorter than the minimum.
So that's pretty much what this feature does for me.
So let me go back to cute.
Now if you want to use a different layout you can do that here lay out in the form lay out lay out in
the vertical and splitter.
But the one that is really good is to lay out in a grid word pretty does what we've just seen.
Now what if you want to have a little distance in between here which you then can use is a spacer.
So for example you could use a vertical spacer in between here you see now create that this space or
for me but I cannot change the size of the spacer either.
Let me save that and build real quickly run the build and it's done.
Run the main and there we are.
So there is a space in between but the space now is depending on the size of the window.
So if you want to have a distance in between here you can get that but it's going to be flexible at
least with this layout.
All right.
So one thing that you have to take into consideration when pressing this button here at the top is that
you have your central widget or your main window selected in order to do that.
Now what you can of course do is any time break to lay out.
So let me break the latest as additional button here and it will pretty much break the whole layout
and pull things and a different way.
OK.
So if I go back to my layout grid can see it goes back to my structure that looked pretty good.
All right.
So that was just something that I wanted to show you.
And I'd say let's go to signals and slots in the next video.